## What is a Copypasta?
> A copypasta is a block of text that is copied and pasted across the Internet by individuals through online forums and social networking websites. Copypastas are said to be similar to spam as they are often used to annoy other users and disrupt online discourse.
[[source]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copypasta)

Example: [the GNU/Linux copypasta](https://stallman-copypasta.github.io/)

## Rust Copypasta
#### v1
> OMG imagine using *that* disgusting language over *RUST*. As a proud rustacean, I'm going to inform you: that's blasphemy. You can do better. Grab cargo and start using a beautiful memory managed, statically typed, comfortable yet low level language with a spectacular packaging system. No more memory leaks. No more makefiles. End the weird bugs caused by unrequested type casting. Easily find libraries. AND ALL OF THAT IS BLAZING FAST (at C/cpp-level speeds - yay compiled langs and llvm c:). Why wouldn't you? The syntax is spectacular as well; extremely clean, much better than anything else out there. Those match statements are so extremely pleasant, and the looping conventions are orgasmic. And the compiler is the most useful and polite you'll come across; no more endlessly scrolling segmentation fault and template errors. It's amazing and I love it and you should switch now because it's far superior to literally everything else, all those gross languages you're used to using. Come to rust and you'll never look back, it's so versatile and cleeeeean. Graydon Hoare is literally a god. The rust book is my bible. this is my religion now. USE RUST

#### v2
> lol is that C++? Wait are you binding that with Python?! Imagine using those over *Rust*. As a proud Rustacean and Ferris the Crab adorer, I regret to inform you that your taste in languages sucks. This is sad. You can do better. You know how easy package and dependancy management is with Cargo? Not to mention you don't even need a Makefile. It's great. Dynamically typed languages need to die. There's no other option. They just do. If you like dynamic typing, you need some help. Seriously. By using a dynamically typed and interpreted language (which means its @#*!&!@ slow!!!), you are committing genocide and harming the environment more than gas cars. Rust is fast and uses clean, renewable energy through the magic of being a language compiled with LLVM. Tired of memory bugs? You should be. Shame on you for still having them when Rust exists. Tired of being bad? Time to go to Rust. Tired of being slow because you're not smart and your friends laugh at you? Rust is quite speedy indeed (all thanks to the big brain of the compiler). Tired of not getting off the normal way? Match statements, loops, and the compiler for Rust give the best orgasms 10/10 (completely legit). Not to mention the superiority you get to feel when you show off your superior Rust code to your inferior "friends" still using some other language. Want to get rid of malware? Rust is safe, therefore malware is noware (also completely legit). You quite honestly will forget about any other language (including English because it's slow and unsafe). You even get to add the Rust Book and its brothers to your Bible collection alongside the Arch and Gentoo Wikis. All hail Rust. TempleOS pales in religious comparison to the faith of Rustaceans. Graydon Hoare is Jesus. Amen.
